src/blog/Measuring difficulty and making it easy.md, before:

Is it by measuring chance of success or number of actions involved?

It is easy to drink water than it is to arrange water where pipeline is not registered by the authorities. 

It is easy to eat than it is cook. It is easy to use money than it is to earn. It is easy to watch movies than to read books. 

Difficulty is chance of success or number of actions involved or both. How do you measure difficulty in the situations depends on the nature of tasks. Following, we will discuss how difficulties are measured and how they can be reduced. 

First understand that by difficult, did you mean by chance that it would happen? It is impossible that I will earn 3 figures this year. How did you get that? By reviewing your current actions and the amount of actions to get there are too many. Or is that the actions you have specified have this amount of chance that it will happen. 

The trick is that after you understand the nature of difficulty, you will be able to reduce it. For example, there is a 5% chance that I will succeed in building this project this year. This number came up by understanding the system that I have laid to building the project. It is bad and unstable so the chance it will succeed is quite narrow. 

Now what you have to do is bump this chance up. Review the system that you have created and understand the missing pieces. You can't understand it by looking at it. It won't happen. The only way you will be able to find the missing pieces is by getting more information about it. Learn how the system is built. For example, if I am building a website using a set of technologies and now I have come with this number, it is probably because the requirements contain a specific requirement that I don't have expertise of or there are potential limitations to the technology stack I am going to use for this project. 

After exploring via vast information on the internet, I am able to see available options. I can learn potential options and put them in the ranking list. Weigh those options and select the best one. Do this iterative process for each of the technology in my stack. 

Now the chance of success has gone way up. Time to make it further by introducing new nodes into the system instead of replacement. Again, explore. 

"In the end, those who explore the best will win."

Found technologies that would potentially meet requirements and also would add extra amazing features due good technology selection. I was able to bump the chance from 5% to 75% by just exploration. 

Now, it is difficult to do this in real world but possible. You have to know where to look. Wandering is also an option but knowing how to use compass is better than wandering. 

Timing plays an important role here. Considering the difficulty is based on what we have discussed and such is tightly coupled with time. If solving such task is going to require so much time then we specify it is "impossible". When a task takes too long then our estimation becomes longer than that. If task takes short time then our estimation becomes exactly that. We by nature don't want to waste time but did you know how much time do you have and how much will you use it? 

Some people live 150+ years and use only 50 years of time. Sleeping and eating is not considered. It is the time you have spent on using the mobile or watching movies. The content that you consumed had no worth. The work you did had no impact at all, while every work has impact. We prefer to do the work that create large impact, or at least that impact is perceivable. 

So in short, don't run away from time consuming tasks. They may take long today but tomorrow when the same task stumbles, you will take less time to complete. More and more you do it, the shorter you will take to do it. Imagine being against the person who never did it, you will hit the dopamine hit and be grateful for doing this task. 

For example, what if you learned how to read. Mastered this skill by reading a lot. Now compare yourself to those who have less reading capability than you. You have become a monster out of the cage at this point. Able to read so much useful information and retain to connect dots to invent. Again, in the end those with knowledge will win. 

Understand this and you will have advantage in the competition. Go against the normal human behaviour and reap rewards.

Commit message:

chore: Standardize blog post front matter with generated metadata

src/blog/Measuring difficulty and making it easy.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: "Measuring Difficulty and Making It Easy"
description: "Understand how to measure task difficulty based on success chance and actions, and strategies to reduce it through exploration and consistent effort."
date: "2025-08-28"
tags: ["productivity", "problem solving", "learning", "self-improvement"]
---
Is it by measuring chance of success or number of actions involved?

It is easy to drink water than it is to arrange water where pipeline is not registered by the authorities. 

It is easy to eat than it is cook. It is easy to use money than it is to earn. It is easy to watch movies than to read books. 

Difficulty is chance of success or number of actions involved or both. How do you measure difficulty in the situations depends on the nature of tasks. Following, we will discuss how difficulties are measured and how they can be reduced. 

First understand that by difficult, did you mean by chance that it would happen? It is impossible that I will earn 3 figures this year. How did you get that? By reviewing your current actions and the amount of actions to get there are too many. Or is that the actions you have specified have this amount of chance that it will happen. 

The trick is that after you understand the nature of difficulty, you will be able to reduce it. For example, there is a 5% chance that I will succeed in building this project this year. This number came up by understanding the system that I have laid to building the project. It is bad and unstable so the chance it will succeed is quite narrow. 

Now what you have to do is bump this chance up. Review the system that you have created and understand the missing pieces. You can't understand it by looking at it. It won't happen. The only way you will be able to find the missing pieces is by getting more information about it. Learn how the system is built. For example, if I am building a website using a set of technologies and now I have come with this number, it is probably because the requirements contain a specific requirement that I don't have expertise of or there are potential limitations to the technology stack I am going to use for this project. 

After exploring via vast information on the internet, I am able to see available options. I can learn potential options and put them in the ranking list. Weigh those options and select the best one. Do this iterative process for each of the technology in my stack. 

Now the chance of success has gone way up. Time to make it further by introducing new nodes into the system instead of replacement. Again, explore. 

"In the end, those who explore the best will win."

Found technologies that would potentially meet requirements and also would add extra amazing features due good technology selection. I was able to bump the chance from 5% to 75% by just exploration. 

Now, it is difficult to do this in real world but possible. You have to know where to look. Wandering is also an option but knowing how to use compass is better than wandering. 

Timing plays an important role here. Considering the difficulty is based on what we have discussed and such is tightly coupled with time. If solving such task is going to require so much time then we specify it is "impossible". When a task takes too long then our estimation becomes longer than that. If task takes short time then our estimation becomes exactly that. We by nature don't want to waste time but did you know how much time do you have and how much will you use it? 

Some people live 150+ years and use only 50 years of time. Sleeping and eating is not considered. It is the time you have spent on using the mobile or watching movies. The content that you consumed had no worth. The work you did had no impact at all, while every work has impact. We prefer to do the work that create large impact, or at least that impact is perceivable. 

So in short, don't run away from time consuming tasks. They may take long today but tomorrow when the same task stumbles, you will take less time to complete. More and more you do it, the shorter you will take to do it. Imagine being against the person who never did it, you will hit the dopamine hit and be grateful for doing this task. 

For example, what if you learned how to read. Mastered this skill by reading a lot. Now compare yourself to those who have less reading capability than you. You have become a monster out of the cage at this point. Able to read so much useful information and retain to connect dots to invent. Again, in the end those with knowledge will win. 

Understand this and you will have advantage in the competition. Go against the normal human behaviour and reap rewards.
